Write about the ethical and professional responsibilities in building the application you are making. Discuss the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.


For ethics, the web design should be simple, and friendly to people in all age ranges. It means that all the details on the application should be displayed clearly and all functions should be straightforward. Posting functionality is one example of that point. With a social media application, posting is the feature that is used the most by users. To make it easier to use, the posting is displayed on the home page which is the first page shown after logging in. With this design, users can easily find it. In addition, the posting text bar will display short and informative instructions. With those design factors, everyone including those who have no experience with using social media can post with no struggle. This is making the application become a user-friendly app. Another concern of design is a professional responsibility. So, when constructing this application, we must look very carefully at our responsibilities. By building this platform, we are creating an area where people of all ages are free to express their thoughts and opinions. With this in mind, we are faced with the challenge of making sure that the application is suitable for all. When dealing with the control of what people say, we have to apply some limits to what can be expressed so people can not hurt each other. This is something that is viewed as difficult for many engineers as finding that limit can prove to be a difficult task. The boundaries of what people see as hurtful speech vary from person to person. 

Now when it comes to the world of engineering, we engineers find ourselves with the power to impact the world around us majorly. Whether that be creating the next big tech company or making an app to help people with everyday lives, we are giving the power to make a difference in the world. Everything we engineers do will change some aspect of the world today and we hold the power to choose what it changes.
